San, Hirako. Cracking the Full Stack Developer Interview: The Complete Handbook to Land the Job (p. 17~). Hirako Publishing. Kindle Edition. 

# Funtional Programming
## What is functional programming?
Functional programming produces program by composing mathematical functions and avoid shared state, mutable data.
Lips was among the first languages to support functional programming and was heavily inspired by lambda calculus
Lisp and many Lisp family languages are still in everyday use today.

Functional programming is an essential concept in JavaScript, it is declarative rather than imperative,
and application state flows through purefunctions.
Contrast with object oriented programming, where application state is usually shared and colocated with methods in objects.

Functional code tends to be more concise, more predictable, and easier to test than imperative or object oriented code.

## What is a Pure function?
A pure function is a fuction which
 - Given the same inputs, always return the same output
 - Has no side-effects
 - Pure functions have lots of properties that are important in functional programming, including referential transparency

## What is the meaning of Side Effect?
A side effect is any applications state change that is observable outside the called function other than its return value
Side effects include
 - Modifying any external variable or object property(e.g a global variable)
 - Loggintg to the console
 - Writing to the screen

## what is Immutablilty?
An immutable object is an object that can't get its state modified after its creation.

## what is a higher order function?
Higher order functions are functions that take a function as an argument, returns a function, or both.
They are often used to
 - Abstract or isolate actions, effects, or async flow control using callback functions, promises, etc.
 - Create utilities whcih can act on a side variety of data types.
 - Partially apply a function to its argument or create a curried function for the purpose of reuse or function composition
 - Take a list of functions and return some composition of those input functions.

## Curried Function, what is that?
A curried functino is a function of several arguments rewritten in such a way that it accepts the first argument and returns a function that accepts the second argument and so on. 
This allows functions of several argrments to have some of their initial arguements partially applied

## Is Functional Programming Declarative or Imperative?
Functional programming is a declarative paradigm, meaning that the program logic is expressed without explicitly describing the flow control.
Imperative programs spend lines of code describing the specific steps used to achieve the desired results--the flow contro:How to do this
Declarative programs abstract the flow control process, and instead spend lines of code describing the data flow: What to do. The how gets abstracted away.
