San, Hirako. Cracking the Full Stack Developer Interview: The Complete Handbook to Land the Job (p. 52). Hirako Publishing. Kindle Edition. 

# General
## What is DBMS?
The database management system is a collection of programs that enbales user to store, retrieve, update and delete information from a database.

## What is RDBMS?
Relation Database Management system. It is a database management system that is based on the relational model.
Data from relational database can be accessed or reassembled in many different ways without having to reorganize the database tables.
Data from relational database can be accessed using an API, Structured Query Language(SQL).

## What is SQL?
Structured Query Language is a language designed specifically for communicating with databases.
SQL is an ANSI(American National Standards Institute) stadard.

## What is DDL?
DDL stands for Data Definition LAnguage and is used to define the structure that holds the data.
For example, Create, Alter, Drop and Truncate table.

## What is DML?
DML stands for Data Manipulation Language and is used for manipulation of the data itself.
Typical operations are Insert, Delete, Update and retriving the data from the table.
The Select statement is considered as a limited version of the DML, since it can't change the data in the database.
But it can perform operations on data retrieved from the DBMS, before the results are returned to the calling function.

## What is DCL?
DCL stands for Data Control Language and is used to control the visibility of data like granting database access and set privileges to create tables,
etc. Exmaple -Grand, Revoke access permission to the user access data in the database.

## What are the advantages of SQL?
SQL is not a proprietary language used by specific database vendors.
Almost every major DBMS supports SQL, so learning this one language will enabla programmers to interact with 
any database like ORACLE, Mysql etc.
SQL is easy to learn. The statements are all made of descriptive keywords.
SQL allow performing very complex and sophisticated database operations.

## What is a field in a databse?
A filed is an area within a record reserved for a specific piece of data

## What is a Record in a databse?
A record, or row, is the collections of values / fields of a specific entity:
ie. an Employee, Salary etc.

## What is a Table in a database?
A table is a collection of records of a specific type.
For example, employee table, salary table etc.

# Transactions
## What is a database transaction?
Database transaction takes a set of database records from one consistent state to another.
At the end of the transaction the system must be in the prior state if the transaction fails or the status of the system should reflect the successful completion if the transaction goes through.

## What are properties of a transaction?
Expect this SQL Interview Questions as a part of any interview involving databases, irrespective of your experience.
Properties of the transaction can be summarized as the ACID properties belows.

## Atomicity
A transaction consists of many steps. When all the steps in a transaction get completd, it will get reflected in DB or if any step fails, all the transactions are rolled back.

## Consistency
Consistency, state that data cannot be written that would violate the database's own rules for valid data.
If a certain transaction occurs that attempts to introduce inconsistent data, the entire transaction is rolled back and an error returned.

A simple rule of consistency may state that the Gender column of a database may only have the value 'Male','Female' or 'Unknown'. 
If a user attempts to enter something else, say 'Hermaphrodite' then a database consistency rule kicks in and disallows the entry of such a value.

## Isolation
Every transaction sold operate as if it is the only transaction in the system.
Transaction isolation is an important part of any transactional system.
It deals with consistency and conpleteness of data retrieved by queries unaffecting a user data by other user actions.
A database acquires locks on data to main a high level of isolation.

## Durability
Once a transaction has completed successfully, the updated rows/records must be avilable for all other transactions on a permanent basis. 
Durability guarantees that transactions that have committed will survive permanetly.
For example, if a flight booking reports that a seat has successfully been booked, then the seat will remain booked even if the system is restarted, or crashes.

# Keys and Constraints
## What is a primary key.
A primary key is a cloumn whose values uniquely identify every row in a table.
Primary key values can never be reused.

## What is Composite key?
A Composite key is type of key, which represents a set of columns whose values uniquely identify every row in a table.
For example - if "employee_id" and employee name" in a table is combined to uniquely identify a row iss called a composite key.

## What is composite primary key
a composite primary key is a set of columns whose values uniquely identify every row in a table where a table having a composite primary key will be indexed based on the columns specified in the primary key.
This key will be fererred in Foreign Key tables.
For example - if the combined effect of columns, "employee-id" and employee name" in a table is required to uniquely identify a row, its called a composite primary key.
In this case, both the columns will be represented as primary key.

## What is a Foreign Key
When a table's primary key field is added to a related "many" table in order to create the common field which relates the two tables, it is called a foreign key in those other tables.
For example, the salary of an employee is stored in salary table.
The relation is established via foreign key column "Employee_ID_ref" which refers "Employee_ID" field in the employee table.

# Insert, Update, and Delete
## Defile the SQL insert statement
Sql insert statement is used to add rows to a table.
The sql query starts with the insert into statement followed by the table name and values command,
followed by the values that need to be inserted into the table.

## Define sql updatee statement
Sql update is used to update data in a row or set of rows specified in the filter condition.
the basic format of an sql update statement is, update command followed by the table name to be updated and set command followed by column names and their new values followed by filter condition that determines which rows should be updated

## Define sql delete statement
Sql delete is used to delete a row or set of rows specified in the fileter condition.
the basic format of an sql delete statement is, delete from command followed by the table named followed by filter condition that determines which rows should be deleted.

## How are wild cards used in sql statement?
sql like operator is sued for pattern matching.
the like command takes more time to precess. so before using it as an operator, 
consider suggestions given below on when and where to use wild card search.

# Join, view, clauses
## Define Join and explain different types of joins?
In order to avoid data duplication, data is stored in related tables.
One of the type of JOIN command is used to fetch data from related tables.
Joining return rows when there is at least one match in both tables.
Commonly used types of joins are covered below.
 - Right join : Return all rows from the right table, even if there are no matches in the left table.
 - Left join : Return all rows from the left table, even if there are no matches in the right table.
 - Inner Join : Return rows when there is a match on both tables.

## What is Self-Join
Self-join is when a query joins a table to itself. Aliases should be used for the same table comparison.

## What is Cross Join?
Cross join will return all records where weach row from the first table is combined with each row from the second table.

## What is the difference between the WHERE clause and the HAVING clause?
WHERE and HAVING both filters out records based on one or more conditions.
The difference is, WHERE clause can only be applied on a static non-aggregated column whereas we will need to use HAVING for aggregated columns.

## What is a View?
Views are virtual tables. Unlike tables that contain data, views rather contain queries that dynamically retrieve data when used.

## What are advantages and disavantages using Views?
Advantages
 - View don't store data in a physical location.
 - The view can be used to hide some of the columns from the table.
 - Views can provide Access Restriction, since data insertaion, update and deleteion is not possible with the view.

Disadvantages
 - When a table is dropped or altered, associated views become irrelevant or need updated as well.
 - Complexity where performance suffers because views may be based upon multiple tables. In this cases, queries based upon such views will experience increases in execution time the database's query processor has to translate queries in order to query the actual tables of the database from which the columns of the view are derived.

## What is a Stored Procedure?
A store procedure is a function which contains a collection of SQL Queries.
The procedure can take input, process them and send back output.

## What are Advantages of a Stored Procedure?
Store procedures are precompiled and store in the database.
This enbles the database to execute the queries faster. 
Sinc many queries can be included in a stored procedure, round trip time to execute multiple queires from source code to database and back is avoided.

Also, multiple applications can invoke the stored procedure, this can avoid SQL duplication and maintenance across multiple seperate consuming applications.

# NoSQL

